more information about mqtt performance impact considerations & update a file name (#2170)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_increasing-host-limit-for-pull-based-rex-transport.adoc

[id="Increasing_host_limit_for_pull-based_REX_transport_{context}"]
= Increasing Host Limit for Pull-Based REX Transport

{Project} has a pull-based transport that has the features of REX but with a deployment model similar to katello-agent. 
This transport uses MQTT as its messaging protocol and includes an MQTT client running on each host.

> In order to tune the MQTT server (`mosquitto`) and increase the number of hosts connected to it, you can follow the following procedure on the {ProjectServer}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To tune the MQTT server `mosquitto` and increase the number of hosts connected to it, follow this procedure on your {ProjectServer}:
```

.Procedure

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Enable pull-based remote execution on your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
{foreman-installer} --foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mode pull-mqtt
----
+
Note that your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} can only use one transport mode, either SSH or MQTT.

> . To increase the default number of hosts accepted by the MQTT server, create the following system unit definition file and set its contents as specified in the below given example (this will allow the `mosquitto` service to handle ~5000 hosts):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a config file to increase the default number of hosts accepted by the MQTT service:
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
cat >/etc/systemd/system/mosquitto.service.d/limits.conf <<__EOF__
[Service]
LimitNOFILE=5000
__EOF__

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
This example sets the limit to allow the `mosquitto` service to handle 5000 hosts.
```

> [id="Increasing_host_limit_for_pull-based_REX_transport_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="Increasing_host_limit_for_pull_based_REX_transport_{context}"]
```

= Increasing Host Limit for Pull-Based REX Transport

> {Project} has a pull-based transport that has the features of REX but with a deployment model similar to katello-agent. 

Reviewer: I would not mention "katello-agent" anymore", at least not for Foreman nightly. Maybe you can create a tiny follow-up PR that only gets merged to 3.7 and below?

Reviewer 3: Perhaps this is something that should be handled  as part of https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/2508?

This transport uses MQTT as its messaging protocol and includes an MQTT client running on each host.

> Use this procedure to tune the MQTT server `mosquitto` and increase the number of hosts connected to it:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can tune the `mosquitto` MQTT server and increase the number of hosts connected to it.
```

> To tune the MQTT server `mosquitto` and increase the number of hosts connected to it, follow this procedure on your {ProjectServer}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this procedure to tune the MQTT server `mosquitto` and increase the number of hosts connected to it:
```

Reworded because the first step affects both Foreman Server and Smart Proxy Server.

.Procedure
. Enable pull-based remote execution on your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> {foreman-installer} --foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mode pull-mqtt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# {foreman-installer} --foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mode pull-mqtt
```
And at other places as well.

----
+

> Note that your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} can only use one transport mode, either SSH or MQTT.

Reviewer: alternative: instead of having users to enable Pull mode, maybe make it a prerequisite? I doubt that anyone follows this procedure without actually already using REX Pull mode yet.

Author: We can do that as well but It is a good idea to explain about the entire procedure  (as we are doing here) so that customer or user is aware of it :)

. Create a config file to increase the default number of hosts accepted by the MQTT service:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
cat >/etc/systemd/system/mosquitto.service.d/limits.conf <<__EOF__
[Service]
LimitNOFILE=5000
__EOF__
----
+
This example sets the limit to allow the `mosquitto` service to handle 5000 hosts.

> . Run the following commands to apply your changes:

Reviewer 3: Can we say instead what those commands do? For example:
```suggestion
. Reload the daemon configuration and restart the `mosquitto` service:
```
